When it's possible to do so,
an experiment can be
designed with more than one control
unit for each treatment unit.
Having more than one control unit for
each treatment unit
increases the confidence in the baseline
and makes for a better comparison.
In general, there's no hard rule of how
many control units there should be for
each treatment unit.
As an analyst, you'd want to look
at the statistical distances
with different number of
control unit matches.
And look to see when the distance
increases significantly.
For example, with Treatment store 111,
the distance jumps
from 0.001817 to
0.002988 after 2 stores.
And then again from 0.003865
to 0.006045 after 5 stores.
And then again to
0.009964 after 6 stores.
When using multiple control units,
the distance is averaged
across the nearest units.
Therefore, it's important
to balance the need for
more control units with
the best average distance.
Using two control stores would result in
only a slight decrease
in the average distance.
But would likely increase
the reliability of our analysis.
Using 5 stores would increase
the average distance due to the jump in
distance from the 4th and 5th stores.
So this would likely not be desirable.
And lastly, using 7 stores results in
a substantial increase in distance.
In summary, the goal is to find
the balance between more matches and
average distance between matches.
With this data, 2 matches would
be a great starting point.
let's work through matching control
units to a set of treatment units.
For the new product
introduction experiment,
let's say that your manager is
assigned a set of 10 treatment stores
in California where the cherry
flavor of the product will be sold.
We'll walk through matching 2 control
stores to each of the stores for
the set of treatment stores for
cherry flavor.